
The above code is an implementation of Breadth-First Search algorithm using Python. 

BFS is a traversing algorithm that visits all the nodes of a graph or tree in breadth-first order, i.e., 

it visits all the nodes at the current depth level before moving on to the next level.


Define the graph as a dictionary of lists, where the keys are the nodes and the values are the neighbors of each node.

This graph has six nodes ('5', '3', '7', '2', '4', and '8') and seven edges.

Define an empty list visited to keep track of visited nodes, and an empty list queue to implement BFS.

Define a function bfs() that takes three arguments:
visited: the list of visited nodes
graph: the graph represented as a dictionary
node: the starting node for BFS
The function initializes the visited and queue lists with the starting node, and then starts a loop to visit all the nodes in the graph using BFS.


We start with node '5' as the starting node and add it to the visited and queue lists.
We dequeue node '5' from the queue and print it as the first visited node.
We add its neighbors '3' and '7' to the visited and queue lists.
We dequeue node '3' from the queue and print it as the next visited node.
We add its neighbors '2' and '4' to the visited and queue lists. Note that node '8' is also a neighbor of '4', 

but it has already been visited, so we don't add it to the queue.
We dequeue node '7' from the queue and print it as the next visited node.
We add its neighbor '8' to the visited and queue lists.
We dequeue node '2' from the queue and print it as the next visited node. Note that it has no neighbors, 

so we don't add any nodes to the visited or queue lists.
We dequeue node '4' from the queue and print it as the next





The above code is an implementation of Breadth-First Search algorithm using Python. 

BFS is a traversing algorithm that visits all the nodes of a graph or tree in breadth-first order, i.e., 

it visits all the nodes at the current depth level before moving on to the next level.

Here's the step-by-step explanation of the code:

First, we define the graph as a dictionary with nodes as keys and their corresponding neighbors as values.

graph = { '5' : ['3','7'], '3' : ['2', '4'], '7' : ['8'], '2' : [], '4' : ['8'], '8' : [] }

We initialize two lists, visited and queue. visited list is used to keep track of visited nodes, 

and queue list is used to keep track of nodes to be visited.

visited = [] queue = []

We define the bfs function that takes in three parameters: visited list, graph, and starting node. 

In the function, we append the starting node to the visited list and queue.

visited.append(node) queue.append(node)

We start a while loop that runs until the queue is empty.

 Within the loop, we pop the first element from the queue and print it.

m = queue.pop(0) print(m, end=" ")

We loop through the neighbors of the popped node and check if they are already visited. 

If not, we append them to the visited list and queue.

for neighbour in graph[m]: if neighbour not in visited: visited.append(neighbour) queue.append(neighbour)

We call the bfs function with starting node '5' and print the nodes visited in BFS order.

bfs(visited, graph, '5') print("\nFollowing is the Breadth-First Search")





